hey guys J here hope you're doing well
and this lesson we're going to look at
TOEFL reading skill number five which is
called identifying facts I assume you
know what a fact is so let's get started
the objective of this lesson is for you
to understand the question type so when
you see it on test day you know exactly
what it is and to you know exactly how
to answer it accurately now what I'm
going to do in this lesson is I'm going
to describe the task to you I'm going to
teach you a very simple method that you
should follow on test day and I'll give
you a chance to practice at the end
there so let me just describe this task
to you so this is what it looks like on
test day now it's not immediately clear
what question type of ears it says the
question prompt says according to the
passage what might be one cause of a
single instance of a phobic like episode
so there's no single word that tells us
that this is the fact question like
inference for example but you can sort
of tell in that question prompt that
it's asking you to look for a fact
single like cause of a phobic like
episode for example or something like
that it's you have to find the fact in
the passage that's what it's all about
find the fact in the passage cool
okay method how do we do this then so
step on read the question and the answer
options here we go so according to the
passage what might be one cause of a
single instance of a phobic like episode
what might be one cause of a single
instance of a phobic like episodes acing
plane crashes on the news be watching
too much violent television see
possessing a desire for public attention
or D having too much stress in one's
life what might be one cause of a single
instance of a phobic like episode okay
step two we need to scan the passage for
the fact let me read it to you finally
for a fear to be truly for a fear to
truly be a phobia it must be recurring
okay that's not a single instance let's
keep reading that is if the man on the
plane had flown before without incident
and continued to use planes after this
one panic attack without experiencing
further bouts of unreasonable fear then
he would not be said to be suffering
from a phobia okay we're looking for a
single instance of a phobic like episode
a true Avior of phobic of someone who's
scared of flying could never contemplate
flying in any form without experiencing
severe symptoms of acute nervousness in
this case the man's single onset of
severe panic would most likely be viewed
as symptomatic
of some other mental disorder perhaps
brought on by unrelated stresses in one
in his life hmm
so you can see the synonymous language
here
the man's single onset of severe panic
would most likely be viewed as
symptomatic of some other mental
disorder perhaps brought on by unrelated
stresses in his life what might be one
cause of a single instance of a phobic
like episode okay fine
step three let's eliminate the incorrect
answer options so it's it's nothing
about a scene playing crashes on the
news be watching too much television now
we haven't read this part down here
let's just quickly ran it just in case
obviously the fact that phobias are
recurring fears or rather that they
involve constant fear of the object of
the phobia should not be taken to mean
that the fear can never be overcome a
person who is suffering from a phobia
may either through great effort of will
or more likely through a course of
psychiatric treatment conquer his phobia
and cease to be frightened of whatever
it was he was formerly afraid of so
that's unrelated to this question we
really look at this paragraph here so
see possessing a dark desire for public
attention or D having too much stress in
one's life which leads us to step 4
choose the remaining answer which is I
hope you
d so let's connect this question prompt
to the answer option here so let's just
see one cause of a single instance of a
phobic like episode is having too much
stress in one's life and that matches
with this part of the paragraph this
sentence here cool this is pretty tricky
this is pretty tricky let's do some
practice your turn now once you read the
question and the answer options I want
you to find the fact in the text I want
you to choose the correct answer
pause the video give yourself a minute
I'll see you in a second hmmm how'd you
go tricky tricky stuff let's go through
the answer together if you haven't done
it please go back and do it because I
know it's frustrating and it hurts your
brain nobody likes to do this sort of
stuff but if you want to get a high
score and TOEFL reading you really do
need to practice there's no other way
around it even if you consider yourself
a good reader ok let's have a look here
so let's just see the answer okay okay
so the answer is B let's let's find that
so according to the passage what must
proteins do in order to perform their
responsibilities clean up waste and
complete routine maintenance change
their shape transport materials and
information between cells and their
environment develop more efficient drugs
what must proteins do well that doesn't
make any sense at all so we can
eliminate that one fine
proteins are considered the workhorse
molecules of cells they are responsible
for nearly all tasks in cellular life
including waste cleanup but you know
what should they do in order to perform
their responsibilities they are
responsible for nearly all tasks in
cellular life including waste cleanup
and routine maintenance for example some
proteins are responsible for
transporting materials and information
between the cell and its environment a
vital task for the survival and normal
function of the cell any disorder in
protein function could result in disease
and the study of protein function is
necessary for understanding the
molecular basis of disease
not yet to function proteins change
their shape okay that's interesting so
what must proteins do in order to
perform their responsibilities to
function proteins change their shape
because proteins are not static objects
understanding their conformational
dynamics is a necessary step in
deciphering the molecular McBrayer blah
blah blah cool that's why that's tricky
if you need help for TOEFL reading
success check out a two language comm so
you can do the practice questions go and
sign up for free it's a free sign up if
you want to upgrade there you'll get
access to tutorials live classes heaps
of practice material feedback on your
writing and speaking
there are lots and lots of benefits I'll
see you soon